Name: Nathan Tjoar
UID: 005081232
Email: ntjoar@g.ucla.edu

This project includes:
lab0.c: C source code from input to output if --input and --output flags are given. --segfault will force a segfault. --catch will register a SIGSEV handler to catch the segfault. --dump-core dumps core on segmentation faults.
Makefile: A general file that builds lab0 from lab0.c. Additionally, this file contains options to "check", which runs smoke tests and reports whether or not it was a success, a "clean", which removes all files not to be compressed into tarball, and a "dist" to build and compress lab0.c, backtrace.png, breakpoint.png, and the makefile into a tarball for submission.
backtrace.png: A screencapture of the gdb backtrace when done due to a segmentation fault that was forced intentionally.
breakpoint.png: a screen capture of a variable's value tested in order to check whether or not it had the correct values being outputted at that point.

Smoke Tests:
For this project, I have included a test for each exit code that I have used to ensure proper software usage:
Beta: Simple testing of whether or not copying works by checking input and output.
Core: Ensuring exit code 0 for successful copy between files.
IO: Testing for exit code 0 with a proper copy from stdin and stdout.
Unregistered: Testing for exit code 1 with an unregistered argument.
Validity: Testing for exit code 2 with an invalid file.
Output: Testing for exit code 3 with no writing permission
Catcher: Ensuring exit code 4 for segfaults
Segfault testing: Ensuring proper exit code for a segfault without a catch.

Struggles of the project:
In this project, I mostly had difficulty with starting off the project, as I felt lost to begin with. The documentation I had read had made sense, but I did not feel that I understood everything completely. With a few references to online sources listed below, I was able to continue with and do the project properly. There were a few syntax stumbles, but nothing too serious.

Tutorials Used:
(GDB) https://darkdust.net/files/GDB%20Cheat%20Sheet.pdf
(File Descriptors) https://www.computerhope.com/jargon/f/file-descriptor.htm
(Getopt_long) https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/Getopt-Long-Option-Example.html
(C Documentations) Man pages
